FROM: Mazhar Lateef <mazhar.lat...@cryoserver.com>
SUBJECT: Lucene performance issues..
DATE: 27 Jul 2008

Hi,
 
we have a system to archive mails and are facing some issues that we are 
having with search and indexing performance, the following is what we 
are currently facing challenges with, we are currently using lucene 
version 2.2 the platform is SLES10.1 and the application is written in 
Java.

  * Index merging and optimization.
          The index merging/optimization takes too long when large 
number of documents are being
          added, we have resolved this by having two indexes and
          keeping one writable at all times so that mails are
          constantly processed. however it would be good to find a 
solution to this issue. and have the index optimization take less time 
and be more efficient,
         also this process consumes a lot of memory. and sometime the 
application runs of memory.

  * email searching
        o We are creating very large indexes for emails we are
          processing, the size is upto +150GB for indexes only (not
          including data content), this we thought would improve
          search performance since less indexes to open and read from,
          however the searching taking upto minutes and sometime never
          returns results

We have also tried upgrading the lucene version to 2.3 in hope to 
improve performance but the results were quite the opposite. but from my 
research on the internet the Lucene version 2.3 is much faster and 
better so why are we seeing such inconsistency.

we are now adopting a slightly different architecture where we will be 
able to split the indexes and reduce the size, however I wanted to get 
some expert help, to help us with the decision of which lucene version 
to use, and how to use the lucene to get the best balance between index 
size, merging indexes and most importantly search performance,
Any help would be very much appreciated.

Many thanks in advance.

Maz

---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


