FROM: Doug Cutting <cutt...@apache.org>
SUBJECT: Re: Real time indexing and distribution to lucene on separate boxes (long)
DATE: 11 Mar 2004

Kevin A. Burton wrote:
  > 3. Have two directories on the searcher.  The indexer would then 
sync to
> a tmp
> directory and then at run time swap them via a rename once the sync is 
> over.
> The downside here is that this will take up 2x disk space on the 
> searcher.  The
> upside is that the box will only slow down while the rsync is happening.

For maximal search performance, this is your best bet.  Disk space is 
cheap.  At some point all newly issued queries start going against the 
new index, and, pretty soon, you can close and delete the old index. 
But you never have to stop searching.  Disk i/o will spike a bit during 
the changeover, as the new working set is swapped in.

Note that, if folks are paging through results by re-querying (the 
standard method) and the index is updated then things can get funky. 
One approach is to hang onto the old index longer, to make this less 
likely.  In any case, you might want to add an index-id to the search 
parameters, so that, if a next-page is issued when the index is no 
longer there you can give some sort of "stale query" error.

> PS.. Random question.  The performance of the MultiSearcher is Mlog(N) 
> correct?
> Where N is the number of documents in the index and M is the number of 
> indexes?
> Is this about right?

No.

The added cost of a MultiSearcher is mostly proportional to just M, the 
number of indexes.  The normal cost of searching is still mostly 
proportional to N, the number of documents.  So M+N would probably be 
more accurate.  There is a log(M) here and there, to, e.g., figure out 
which index a doc id belongs to, but I doubt these are significant.

The significant costs of a MultiSearcher over an IndexSearcher are that 
it adds more term dictionary reads (one per query term per index) and 
more seeks (also one per query term per index, or two if you're using 
phrases).

Doug

---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org


