FROM: Owen Densmore <o...@backspaces.net>
SUBJECT: Newbie: Human Readable Stemming, Lucene Architecture, etc!
DATE: 20 Jan 2005

Hi .. I'm new to the list so forgive a dumb question or two as I get 
started.

We're in the midst of converting a small collection (1200-1500 
currently) of scientific literature to be easily searchable/navigable.  
We'll likely provide both a text query interface as well as a graphical 
way to search and discover.

Our initial approach will be vector based, looking at Latent Semantic 
Indexing (LSI) as a potential tool, although if that's not needed, 
we'll stop at reasonably simple stemming with a weighted document term 
matrix (DTM).  (Bear in mind I couldn't even pronounce most of these 
concepts last week, so go easy if I'm incoherent!)

It looks to me that Lucene has a quite well factored architecture.  I 
should at the very least be able to use the analyzer and stemmer to 
create a good starting point in the project.  I'd also like to leave a 
nice architecture behind in case we or others end up experimenting 
with, or extending, the system.

So a couple of questions:

1 - I'm a bit concerned that reasonable stemming (Porter/Snowball) 
apparently produces non-word stems .. i.e. not really human readable.  
(Example: generate, generates, generated, generating  -> generat) 
Although in typical queries this is not important because the result of 
the search is a document list, it *would* be important if we use the 
stems within a graphical navigation interface.
     So the question is: Is there a way to have the stemmer produce 
english
     base forms of the words being stemmed?

2 - We're probably using Lucene in ways it was not designed for, such 
as DTM/LSI and graphical clustering and navigation.  Naturally we'll 
provide code for these parts that are not in Lucene.
     But the question arises: is this kinda dumb?!  Has anyone stretched 
Lucene's
     design center with positive results?  Are we barking up the wrong 
tree?

3 - A nit on hyphenation: Our collection is scientific so has many 
hyphenated words.  I'm wondering about your experiences with 
hyphenation.  In our collection, things like self-organization, 
power-law, space-time, small-world, agent-based, etc. occur often, for 
example.
     So the question is: Do folks break up hyphenated words?  If not, do 
you stem the
     parts and glue them back together?  Do you apply stoplists to the 
parts?

Thanks for any help and pointers you can fling along,

Owen    http://backspaces.net/    http://redfish.com/


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org


