FROM: "Bosch, Mike" <mike.bo...@benefitpoint.com>
SUBJECT: RE: Indexing MSFT Outlook/Exchange mail...or really, URLs that re	fer to Outlook
DATE: 7 Jun 2002


I don't know if this will help or not but I think you're on the right path
with the outlook: URL idea.  In Outlook XP the URL window can be show while
you're in your mailbox and it starts with outlook: following by essentially
the address of the folder/message you're on.  I'm doing this from memory,
though, since I have that at home and not on my work computer.

Okay, just did a little test.  Put the following in your browser if you use
Outlook and type this:

outlook:inbox

It should put you in your inbox in Outlook.  I don't know how individual
messages are specified, though, but if you'd like I can look for you this
evening when I get home and see if the individual message has one.
Although, I have no idea at the moment how you're going to get a list like
you do on IMAP of what messages to index.  

-Mike

-----Original Message-----
From: Spencer, Dave [mailto:dave@lumos.com]
Sent: Thursday, June 06, 2002 5:04 PM
To: lucene-user@jakarta.apache.org
Subject: Indexing MSFT Outlook/Exchange mail...or really, URLs that
refer to Outlook


It's not hard to use JavaMail to go to an IMAP server and go thru
all mail msgs and feed them to Lucene - I have a proof of concept 
that works fine.
 
What I can't figure out is if there's some URL syntax that tells IE to
tell Outlook to pull up a selected mail msg. 
 
Goal is to have a web page of search results with appropriate URLs
so that the mail client will go to the selected mail msg.
 
Haven't found anything on the web, msdn, or whatnot.
 
Sometimes when I print I do briefly see "outlook:" in the printer status
window
so maybe that's a clue.
 
Ideally the syntax will have some unique identifier of the msg in it.
 
Does anyone know of the MSFT/Outlook/Exchange URL formats or where 
(in the registery?) these would be defined?
 
 

--
To unsubscribe, e-mail:   <mailto:lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org>
For additional commands, e-mail: <mailto:lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org>


