FROM: "Bosch, Mike" <mike.bo...@benefitpoint.com>
SUBJECT: RE: Standalone Lucene server
DATE: 31 May 2002



A lot of it depends on what your target environment(s) are going to be and
whether or not they're of an enterprise scope nature.  The PHP solutions are
fine if you're running on the same box as the server that is providing the
access since the're based on command line execution.

If you'd like to make Lucene run on a server that lots of different boxes
can access simultaneously then you might want to go for something a little
more grand in scope.  You could use your PHP to just spit XML back to the
caller so that other environments would be using it but it might be more
useful to just leverage the fact that everything is already in Java and
build out an API to access your index and then expose that API via SOAP.
All the SOAP toolkits are somewhat still in their infancy as there are still
issues between the various toolkits as far as interoperability is concerned
but long term it'll be easier to integrate a SOAP based interface into a
larger number of environments and on different servers.  Whats more, if the
client platforms already support SOAP it's probably easier than writing a
decoder for whatever format you were sending back.  Add in Tomcat and AXIS
and you're well on your way to providing a search server.

But again, it all depends on what your requirements/needs are.

-Mike

-----Original Message-----
From: James Cooper [mailto:pixel@bitmechanic.com]
Sent: Friday, May 31, 2002 2:43 PM
To: Lucene Users List
Subject: Re: Standalone Lucene server


On Fri, 31 May 2002, Christian Ubbesen wrote:

> Since Lucene is essentially a java-library today, I'm wondering if
> anyone have wrapped it up as standalone search engine with some neat
> interface (keywords: TCP, HTTP, XML-RPC, SOAP, whatever really...)? 

hi,

yeah, I agree.  Lucene is definately useful outside of Java
applications.  I'm currently using it as the search engine for a PHP based
web site.

I'm not doing anything super-smart.  Just using exec() to fork a JVM that
runs the search, prints the results to STDOUT, which I then parse in PHP.

I could see having a standard XML format for search results being
useful.  The only issue is that the format will likely need to change
given the structure of your index.

cheers

-- James


--
To unsubscribe, e-mail:
<mailto:lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org>
For additional commands, e-mail:
<mailto:lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org>

--
To unsubscribe, e-mail:   <mailto:lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org>
For additional commands, e-mail: <mailto:lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org>


