FROM: <jing_...@agilent.com>
SUBJECT: RE: Indexing and Searching from within a single Document
DATE: 7 Apr 2008

Hi,

I have a similar question. Not heard back from anyone yet.


Dear Lucene experts,

I'm currently evaluating options for our search tool.

The need is:
I have millions of entries in database, each entry is in such format (more or less)

ID	Name	Description	start (number)	stop(number)


Currently my application uses the database to do search, queries are in the following format:

Select * from table where Name like "%mymymy%"

Select * from table where start >5 and stop <50000



I would like very much to use Lucene for such search, for the reason:
1. database performance is not ideal;
2. data is growing to be too big, I want to move to file system,
3. Currently everything is on server, user access through a web application. I want to provide
rich client tool, in which case I would rather not to bother with database installations on
client machine. Database is my last option;
4. Lucene sounds very cool, I want to use a different technology than database, which we are
very familiar with already.



I read the book, played with the demo. My question is:
As you see, I'm not indexing or querying out documents, I'm interested in one row of data.
If I want to use Lucene, how should I do it? Do I have to store my data as documents? Since
I have millions and millions of rows in database, if I store each row as a document, it'd
be millions of documents.


What do you suggest?

Thank you!
Jing

-----Original Message-----
From: syedfa [mailto:fayyazuddin@gmail.com] 
Sent: Monday, April 07, 2008 10:13 AM
To: java-user@lucene.apache.org
Subject: Indexing and Searching from within a single Document


Dear Fellow Java/Lucene developers:

I am writing an application where a user is able to search for keywords from
within a single book.  When the user conducts a search, he/she should
receive a set of results that show the sentence/phrase within the book where
the keyword is found.  Unfortunately, all of the examples that I have for
searching using Lucene discuss the concept of searching multiple documents,
instead of within a single document.  I have written an application that
creates an index of this book, but I now want to search it.  In the result
set, I would like the keyword(s) to be highlighted using Lucene's
HighLighter feature.  Once the user clicks on the hit from the result set
list that they are looking for, the application should take them directly
within to that section of the book where that keyword is found.  The book
that I have indexed is in xml format.

My question is, how would I write an application that allows me to search a
single document, and present a set of results to the user that list portions
of text from the book that contains the user's keyword, instead of
presenting a list of document titles where that keyword is found?

Any help would be greatly appreciated.  Thanks to all who reply.

Sincerely;
Fayyaz
-- 
View this message in context: http://www.nabble.com/Indexing-and-Searching-from-within-a-single-Document-tp16537558p16537558.html
Sent from the Lucene - Java Users mailing list archive at Nabble.com.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org




---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


