FROM: Isabel Drost <isa...@apache.org>
SUBJECT: Call for presentations - Berlin Buzzwords - Summer 2010
DATE: 11 Mar 2010

            Call for Presentations Berlin Buzzwords
                 http://buzzwordsberlin.de
          Berlin Buzzwords 2010 - Search, Store, Scale
                       7/8 June 2010


This is to announce the Berlin Buzzwords 2010. The first conference on scalable 
and open search, data processing and data storage in Germany, taking place in 
Berlin.

The event will comprise presentations on scalable data processing. We invite you 
to submit talks on the topics:

    Information retrieval / Search - Lucene, Solr, katta or comparable solutions
    NoSQL - like CouchDB, MongoDB, Jackrabbit, HBase and others
    Hadoop - Hadoop itself, MapReduce, Cascading or Pig and relatives

Closely related topics not explicitly listed above are welcome. We are looking 
for presentations on the implementation of the systems themselves, real world 
applications and case studies. 

Important Dates (all dates in GMT +2):

    Submission deadline: April 17th 2010, 23:59
    Notification of accepted speakers: May 1st, 2010. 
    Publication of final schedule: May 9th, 2010. 
    Conference: June 7/8. 2010.

High quality, technical submissions are called for, ranging from principles to 
practice. We are looking for real world use cases, background on the 
architecture of specific projects and a deep dive into architectures built on 
top of e.g. Hadoop clusters. 

Proposals should be submitted at http://berlinbuzzwords.de/content/cfp no later 
than April 17th, 2010. Acceptance notifications will be sent out on May 1st. 
Please include your name, bio and email, the title of the talk, a brief abstract 
in English language. Please indicate whether you want to give a short (30min) or 
long (45min) presentation and indicate the level of experience with the topic 
your audience should have (e.g. whether your talk will be suitable for newbies 
or is targeted for experienced users.)

The presentation format is short: either 30 or 45 minutes including questions. 
We will be enforcing the schedule rigorously. 

If you are interested in sponsoring the event (e.g. we would be happy to provide 
videos after the event, free drinks for attendees as well as an after-show 
party), please contact us. 

Follow @hadoopberlin on Twitter for updates. News on the conference will be 
published on our website at http://berlinbuzzwords.de

Program Chairs: Isabel Drost, Jan Lehnardt, and Simon Willnauer.

Schedule and further updates on the event will be published on 
http://berlinbuzzwords.de Please re-distribute this CfP to people who might be 
interested.

Contact us at: 
newthinking communications GmbH
Schönhauser Allee 6/7
10119 Berlin, Germany
Andreas Gebhard <age@newthinking.de>
Isabel Drost <idr@newthinking.de>
+49(0)30-9210 596

