FROM: "Cocula Remi" <rcoc...@sopragroup.com>
SUBJECT: RE: rackmount lucene/nutch - Re: google mini? who needs it when Lucene is there
DATE: 28 Jan 2005


In addition to this discution I would like to mention my efforts in creating 
a wrapper around Lucene with the LuceneServer project (http://sourceforge.net/projects/luceneserver/).
It uses RMI to make indexes available over a network and includes automation tasks.
I am courrently working on a search session mechanism that includes pagination and highlightment.
I have many ideas to make it a real standalone Intranet search engine.

I would be verry glad that some people could help me make it grow.
Perhaps it could be a starting point of what Erik mentions.



-----Message d'origine-----
De : Erik Hatcher [mailto:erik@ehatchersolutions.com]
Envoyé : vendredi 28 janvier 2005 02:02
À : Lucene Users List
Objet : Re: rackmount lucene/nutch - Re: google mini? who needs it when
Lucene is there


I've often said that there is a business to be had in packaging up 
Lucene (and now Nutch) into a cute little box with user friendly 
management software to search your intranet.  SearchBlox is already 
there (except they don't include the box).

I really hope that an application like SearchBlox/Zilverline can be 
created as part of the Lucene project itself, replacing the sad demos 
that currently ship with Lucene.  I've got so many things on my plate 
that I don't foresee myself getting to this as soon as I'd like, but I 
would most definitely support and contribute what time I could to such 
an effort.  If the web UI used Tapestry, I'd be very inclined to dig in 
hardcore to it.  Any other web UI technology would likely turn me off.  
One of these days I'll Tapestry-ify Nutch just for grins and submit it 
as a replacement for the JSPs.

And I'm even more sold on it if Mac Mini's are involved!  :)

	Erik


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org


