FROM: "Hiller, Dean  x66079" <dean.hil...@broadridge.com>
SUBJECT: looks like no allowing of paging without counting entire result set?
DATE: 19 Jun 2011

More on the below issue.  We have perhaps 10 million or 100 million but this new 3.x lucene
appears to go over all the entries that match instead of just having a cursor into the index???
 The more I look at the code, it almost looks like it is not possible.

I am wondering how the old Hits object worked that was deprecated and removed....that looks
like I could stop asking it for more results and it would work better not counting all activities
that matched in my 10 mil or 100 mil result set and just returning the first 100, second 100
and then I can cut off which would be way more performant.

Should I just use 2.9 instead?  But then 3.x doesn't seem to support this?

Thanks,
Dean

From: Hiller, Dean x66079
Sent: Sunday, June 19, 2011 11:29 AM
To: 'java-user@lucene.apache.org'
Subject: how to do simple search paging results of 100 each? and query syntax question

On the link
http://lucene.apache.org/java/3_0_3/queryparsersyntax.html#Range%20Searches


There is ranged searched, how do I specify everything above a date from date 20020101  to
end of time?



Next, I am temporarily using lucene in a noSQL solution(to switch to Solr later after prototype)
and

So I am just indexing basic columns..no need for "top search results", etc.



When I look at the IndexSearcher and it's list of methods I am not sure how I can grab the
first 100

Results, then the second 100 results(that is if I need them), then the third 100 results (again
if needed)



I see a TopScoreDocCollector.create method but the IndexSearcher.search(Query, Collector)
method states only to call that method if you need ALL the results.  I definitely don't need
all but need to page through the

Results and typically exit out around the third page.  This is not a web app, so ideally I
want a reference held into the indexed tree so it can keep giving me the next 100 results.



Thanks,

Dean

This message and any attachments are intended only for the use of the addressee and
may contain information that is privileged and confidential. If the reader of the 
message is not the intended recipient or an authorized representative of the
intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination of this
communication is strictly prohibited. If you have received this communication in
error, please notify us immediately by e-mail and delete the message and any
attachments from your system.

