FROM: "Ross Rankin" <r...@commercescience.com>
SUBJECT: RE: Problems...
DATE: 6 Jan 2005

Thanks for the responses...  It took a bit of time but I'm learning more and
more every day on this.    

To answer Hoss's first question here's the properties for the engine:
lucene.path.to.index=/home/httpd/htdocs/index
lucene.time.interval=15000
lucene.paramOffset = 0

Hoss, could you tell me what to exceptions I'm missing?  Thanks!

I figured out my issue, with a lot of help from Luke.  (Thanks to the other
Luke)  The document I was creating for Lucene to index was missing data due
to a size issue in with the database records.  So Lucene was doing its job
there data wasn't there in the index.  Took a while to figure out why the
document was missing the data, didn't dawn on me that the size and number of
the database records would be the issue, but it really was the only thing
that changed.  

Could you explain this piece further, Erik "BooleanQuery and AND in
TermQuery for resellerId"   

I would love to improve the code of this piece and understand the engine
more.  Like for example, if something is indexed, it will be found in the
search but what about something that is just in the document and not
indexed?  I don't know the difference in Stored, Tokenized, Indexed, and
Vector and where I would do what...  Is there info on that piece on the web
somewhere?

Like I have a large (6000 chars) text field I would like to add to the
document, it's HTML.  I am guessing first it would need to be parsed then
added?  But added and indexed?  The field contains product specs and product
compatibility (most in a table form).  

Sorry for the newbie questions but I am not finding Google very chock full
of Lucene info...

Ross 

-----Original Message-----
From: hossman@hal.rescomp.berkeley.edu
[mailto:hossman@hal.rescomp.berkeley.edu] On Behalf Of Chris Hostetter
Sent: Tuesday, January 04, 2005 6:48 PM
To: Lucene Users List
Subject: Re: Problems...



To start with, there has to be more to the "search" side of things then
what you included.  this search function is not static, which means it's
getting called on an object, which obviously has some internal state
(paramOffset, hits, and pathToIndex are a few that jump out at me)  what
are the values of those variables when this method gets called?

second, there are at least two places in your code where potential
exceptions get thrown away and execution continues.  as a matter of good
practice, you should add logging to these spots to make sure you aren't
ignoring errors...

third, you said " I'm not getting anything in the log that I can point to
that says what is not working," but what about what is/isn't in the log?
there are several System.out.println calls in this code ... I'm assuming
you're logging STDOUT, what do those messages (with variables) say?
what is the value of currentOffset on the initial search? what does the
query.toString look like? how many total hits are being found when the
search is executed?  (or is that line not getting logged because the
search is getting skipped becuase of some initial state in paramOffset?)




-Hoss


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org



---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org


