FROM: Simon Willnauer <simon.willna...@googlemail.com>
SUBJECT: Berlin Buzzwords - conference schedule released
DATE: 12 Apr 2011

Hey folks,

The Berlin Buzzwords team recently released the schedule for
the conference on high scalability. The conference focuses on the
topics search,
data analysis and NoSQL. It is to take place on June 6/7th 2011 in Berlin.

We are looking forward to two awesome keynote speakers who shaped the world of
open source data analysis: Doug Cutting, founder of Apache Lucene and
Hadoop) as
well as Ted Dunning (Chief Application Architect at MapR Technologies
and active
developer at Apache Hadoop and Mahout).

This year the program has been extended by one additional track. The first
conference day focuses on the topics Apache Lucene, NoSQL, messaging and data
mining. Speakers include Jakob Homan from Yahoo! who will give in introduction
to the new Hadoop security features, Daniel Einspanjer is going to show how
NoSQL and Hadoop are being used at Mozilla Socorro. In addition Chris
Male gives
a presentation on how to integrate Solr with J2EE applications.

The second day features presentations by Jonathan Gray on Facebook's use of
HBase in their Messaging architecture, Dawid Weiss, Simon Willnauer
and Uwe Schindler are
showing the latest Apache Lucene developments, Mark Miller provides
insights into Solr Performance
and Mathias Stearn is discussing MongoDB scalability questions.

"For our developers Berlin Buzzwords is a great chance to introduce our open
source project Couchbase (based on Apache CouchDB and Memcached), get in touch
with interested users and discuss their technical questions on site." says Jan
Lehnardt, Co-Founder of Couchbase (merged CouchOne and Membase (formerly
Northscale) [1].

Registration is open, regular tickets are available for 440,- Euro. There is a
group discount. Prizes include coffee break and lunch catering.

After the conference there will be trainings on topics related to Berlin
Buzzwords such as Enterprise Search with Apache Lucene and Solr [2]. For the
very first time we will also have community organised hackathons, that give
Berlin Buzzwords visitors the opportunity to work together with the projects'
developers on interesting tasks.

Berlin Buzzwords is produced by newthinking communications in
collaboration with Isabel Drost (Member of the Apache Software
Foundation, PMC member Apache community development and co-founder of
Apache Mahout), Jan Lehnardt (PMC Chair Apache CouchDB) and Simon
Willnauer (PMC member Apache Lucene).

[1] http://www.heise.de/open/meldung/NoSQL-CouchOne-und-Membase-fusionieren-zu -
Couchbase-1185227.html
[2] http://www.jteam.nl/training/2-day-training-Lucene-Solr.html

---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


