FROM: Christiaan Fluit <christiaan.fl...@aduna-software.com>
SUBJECT: Re: Lucene indexing RDF
DATE: 28 Jun 2006

adasal wrote:
> As far as i have researched this I know that the gnowsis project uses both
> rdf and lucene, but I have not had time to determine their relationship.
> www.gnowsis.org/

I can tell you a bit about Gnowsis, as we (Aduna) are cooperating with 
the Gnowsis people on RDF creation, storage and querying in the Aperture 
project (aperture.sourceforge.net).

Both the latest Gnowsis beta version and various Aduna products use the 
Sesame framework (openrdf.org) to store and query RDF.

One of Sesame's core interfaces is the Sail (Storage And Inference 
Layer), which provides an abstraction on a specific type of RDF store, 
e.g. in-memory, file-based, RDBMS-based, ...

We have developed a Sail implementation that combines a file-based RDF 
storage with a Lucene index. The purpose of this Sail is to provide a 
means to query both document full-text and metadata using an RDF model.

The way we realized this is that document metadata is stored in the RDF 
store, the full-text and other text-like documents are indexed in 
Lucene, and the RDF model is extended with a virtual property connecting 
a Document resource to a query literal that can be used to query the 
full-text. The dedicated Sail knows that that property should not be 
looked up in the RDF store but should instead be evaluated as a Lucene 
query. If you want, I can send you example code that shows how we did this.

We have some ideas on generalizing this approach, as ideally you would 
like to be able to query all RDF literals using Lucene's query 
facilities while making use of the logical RDF structure (which is what 
you want, if I understand you correctly), even when the structure of the 
stored models is not known at development time. However, little work has 
been done on this. I guess that when we would start working on this, the 
code for it would end up in either the Sesame or Aperture code base.


Chris
--


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


