FROM: "Gregor Heinrich" <Gregor.Heinr...@igd.fhg.de>
SUBJECT: RE: Docco 0.2 / contribution offer
DATE: 2 Sep 2003

Hi Peter.

Docco is a great tool which I have been using since you posted your first
announcement (version 1.0, that is). Beside the things you mention in you
mail I also generally think it's a great idea to using formal concept
analysis with Lucene. I would be interested to explore the idea also for
more structured data (maybe include fields and even hierarchies).

Apart from this, if I had an idea of the time commitments connected, I would
definitely consider to join.

Best,

Gregor



-----Original Message-----
From: Peter Becker [mailto:pbecker@dstc.edu.au]
Sent: Tuesday, September 02, 2003 1:52 PM
To: Lucene Users List
Subject: ANN: Docco 0.2 / contribution offer


Hi all,

we finally finished the 0.2 release of our little personal document
management tool based on Lucene:

  http://tockit.sourceforge.net/docco/index.html

This might be interesting for some readers of this list since its source
contains some infrastructure for document handlers and index management.
The document handlers are written with a very simple API, which just
asks the implementation to fill a structure with the information
retrieved from a URL. It is similar to the Ant task in the Lucene
sandbox, but it separates the information collection and the actual
indexing, i.e. all the decisions what should be stored and what shouldn't.

The program comes with implementations for plain text, HTML (based on
Swing), XML (based on JAXP) and Open Office (using ZipStreams/SAX). We
wrote plugins for POI, PDFbox and Multivalent. The latter is
unfortunately a wild hack since Multivalent is the worst Java code I've
seen. Literally. Bad C written in Java. The tool would be nice to use,
but catching exceptions in little helper classes to do a System.exit is
just insane. And that is just one of the problems -- we had to do some
bad hacks to fix these issues. The other implementations should be fine,
although they need some more testing.

The source (including all required libs) of the program is available via
Sourceforge's CVS:

  http://sourceforge.net/cvs/?group_id=37081

The module in question is called "docco". A current snapshot of only the
source is here:

  http://tockit.sourceforge.net/docco/source20030902.zip (~100kb)


The relevant packages are:

  org.tockit.docco.documenthandler: the documenthandler interface and
implementations
  org.tockit.docco.filefilter: some code to pick document handlers via
file extensions or regexps
  org.tockit.docco.index: the model/static bits of the index management
  org.tockit.docco.indexer: the dynamic aspects of the index management:
runnable, framework for handlers

The index management is probably not optimal, I strongly suspect that an
expert could tweak it. But the structure should be ok.

We would be happy to contribute this code to the Lucene sandbox if there
is interest. Or to turn it into a project of its own, we don't think it
should be hidden in our more specific program. It should be easy to
merge it with the Ant task and we are happy to give a hand if wanted.
Adding some documentation would be easy, too -- at the moment the code
is still more for ourself, but it should be very readable by itself. We
require JDK 1.4, but this can be reduced by moving some more document
handlers into plugins.

Anyone interested in joining into maintaining this code? Any feedback is
welcome.

Cheers,
   Peter


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org



