FROM: N Hira <nh...@cognocys.com>
SUBJECT: Re: How to get a apache public license
DATE: 24 Dec 2009

To you as well, Weiwei Wang.

You can theoretically release your project under a license that is very similar to the Apache
license at any time, presuming you are licensing rights related to your project.  To create
a project that is maintained by the Apache Software Foundation, you should probably start
with the Incubator project:  http://incubator.apache.org/

Put briefly, this is what the Incubator does:
...

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best interests
of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's purpose to
establish a Project Management Committee charged with accepting new
products into the Foundation, providing guidance and support to help
each new product engender their own collaborative community,
educating new developers in the philosophy and guidelines for
collaborative development as defined by the members of the
Foundation, and proposing to the board the promotion of such products
to independent PMC status once their community has reached maturity.
...
RESOLVED, that the Apache Incubator PMC be and hereby is
responsible for the acceptance and oversight of new products
submitted or proposed to become part of the Foundation; and be it
further
RESOLVED, that the Apache Incubator PMC is responsible for
providing guidance and ensuring that subprojects under its purview
develop products according to the Foundation's philosophy and
guidelines for collaborative development; and be it further
RESOLVED,
that the Apache Incubator PMC is responsible for regularly evaluating
products under its purview and making the determination in each case
of whether the product should be abandoned, continue to receive
guidance and support, or proposed to the board for promotion to full
project status as part of an existing or new Foundation PMC; and be
it further
...

Source:  http://incubator.apache.org/official/resolution.html

Best of luck!

-h



----- Original Message ----
From: Weiwei Wang <ww.wang.cs@gmail.com>
To: java-user@lucene.apache.org
Sent: Wed, December 23, 2009 9:41:56 PM
Subject: How to get a apache public license

Merry Christamas, guys,

I haven't taken part in any open source activties and currently I want to
make my project open source under apache public license? What should i do?
Apply for a license? and where to apply?

-- 
Weiwei Wang
Alex Wang
王巍巍
Room 403, Mengmin Wei Building
Computer Science Department
Gulou Campus of Nanjing University
Nanjing, P.R.China, 210093

Homepage: http://cs.nju.edu.cn/rl/weiweiwang


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


