FROM: "Vinicius Carvalho" <viniciusccarva...@gmail.com>
SUBJECT: Fwd: Lucene on a cluster environment
DATE: 19 Mar 2008

Thanks a lot for sharing this :)
I'll try to follow your guidelines

Regards

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: <Robert.Hastings@ancept.com>
Date: Wed, Mar 19, 2008 at 12:16 PM
Subject: Re: Lucene on a cluster environment
To: java-user@lucene.apache.org


We went through this a couple of years ago.  I couldn't find the thread in
the archive but the jist of it is as follows:

1.  We have a singleton thread that does all of the writing.  new
Documents and deletions are queued to the writer via a database table.
2.  Since searchers are "point in time" you can user the same searcher in
each cluster member ( this limits the amount of open files), but you need
to refresh the searcher when the index changes.  We use a SearcherHolder
and a single SearcherManager class to manage this.  Events are sent by the
writer and received by the searcher holder when the index changes.
3.  Finally, older versions (1.4 and earlier) of Lucene had problems with
having the index on a shared directory.  I think most of these issues have
been resolved.

Good Luck.



"Vinicius Carvalho" <viniciusccarvalho@gmail.com>
03/19/2008 09:17 AM
Please respond to
java-user@lucene.apache.org


To
java-user@lucene.apache.org
cc

Subject
Lucene on a cluster environment






Hello there! I have just started with lucene. Bought the Lucene in action
book [right now I'm at chap 4, plus the 10th chapter, great explanation by
Terence from jGuru, really nice stuff], also I'm reading most that I can
at
the wiki :)
Still a bit lost with some stuff, mostly with clusters :)
Our app is running in a cluster environment, now we are going to add
search
support for it, and lucene was the choice for it. Since I have many SLSB
spread across the cluster, I would like to know some blueprints to use
lucene in these situation.

Our first idea, was to store the IndexWriter as an MBean inside Jboss and
use it as an HA-Singleton, which would guarantee its uniqueness inside the
cluster. I just would like to get some feedback from you guys on it :)

Best regards

--
"In a world without fences and walls, who needs Gates and Windows?"




-- 
"In a world without fences and walls, who needs Gates and Windows?"

