FROM: Erik Hatcher <e...@ehatchersolutions.com>
SUBJECT: lucenebook.com
DATE: 4 Jan 2005

Otis and I have been working hard to get a website up for Lucene in 
Action and beyond.  It's finally in place at:

	http://www.lucenebook.com

We haven't put in place as much explanation and help there as we 
should, and I'm sure by opening up the flood gates on it we'll uncover 
issues that need to be fixed.  If you come across anything that is 
broken or you have suggestions for improvement, just click the link to 
e-mail us at the top of the site.

Here are a few FAQ's that we'll eventually post to the site -

* What are you searching?
   The search feature searches (using a MultiSearcher) the blog and book 
content.  The results will be a combination of highlighted book section 
snippets and highlighted full blog content.

* Can I see the book contents?
   The only actual book content visible are the snippets in the search 
results.  The search results may be useful if you don't have the book, 
but if you do have the book it will make more sense.  Who knows where 
this will evolve, but there is no current plan to provide more of the 
book content in the search results than this.  For hits in chapters 1 
and 3, there is a link provided to Manning's site where those sample 
chapters can be downloaded in their entirety for free.  The book search 
results are, of course, designed as teasers to (hopefully) show that we 
cover the topics you're interested in and that you should buy a copy of 
the book!  (my children need to eat too :)

* What's up with the hyphens in some of the search results?
   This is an artifact of how the book content was indexed (a text 
version of the PDF was processed, including the words split across 
lines).  These split words are, however, searchable!  There is a fair 
bit of analysis trickery going on to piece this stuff back together 
during indexing, but the stored content still contains the hyphens.

* What are the plans for the blog?
   Otis and I will make book related announcements, news about Lucene in 
general, errata postings, etc.  You can subscribe to the blog using 
your favorite syndication reader using 
http://www.lucenebook.com/blog/?flavor=rdf (or "rss", "atom", or 
"rss2") - yes, we should put the links to this on the site itself.

* How did you build this thing?
   This is a great topic for a case study.  Erik will be preparing a 
case study on this as an article (or series of articles) and using it 
for upcoming presentations.  The "about" page has some technical 
details, but more will follow.

Again, feedback is most welcome - please send it to 
authors@lucenebook.com rather than posting replies to this list though.

	Erik


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org


