FROM: Erik Hatcher <e...@ehatchersolutions.com>
SUBJECT: Re: LuceneRAR project announcement
DATE: 19 Jan 2005

On Jan 19, 2005, at 2:27 PM, Joseph Ottinger wrote:
> After babbling endlessly about an RDMS directory and my lack of success
> with it, I've created a project on java.net to create a Lucene JCA
> component, to allow J2EE components to interact with a Lucene service.
> It's at https://lucenerar.dev.java.net/ currently.

Could you elaborate on some use cases?

What drove you to consider JCA rather than some other technique?  I'm 
curious why it is important to get all J2EE with it rather than working 
with Lucene much more naturally at a lower level of abstraction.

I briefly browsed the source tree from java.net and saw this comment in 
your Hits.java:

"This method loads a LuceneRAR hits object with its equivalent from the 
Apache Lucene Hits object. It basically walks the Lucene Hits object, 
copying values as it goes, so it may not be as light or fast as its 
Apache equivalent"

I'll say!

For large result sets, which are more often the norm than the exception 
for a search, you are going to take a huge performance hit doing 
something like this, not to mention possibly even killing the process 
as you run out of RAM.

This brings me back to my first questions - abstractions around Lucene 
tend to leak heavily.  While it sounds clever to wrap layers around 
Hits, the fact of the matter is that searches often return an enormous 
amount of results and only the first few are generally needed.  
Lucene's Hits takes this into account and fetches on demand from the 
index.

Admittedly for Java Development with Ant, I implemented a stateless 
session bean that walked the hits and packaged them up to send across 
the wire.  This was naive and only worked because I never tried it with 
a large number of hits.  These days I push back from "J2EE" in the 
larger "let's add acronyms because we can" sense and opt for much 
lighter weight, simpler solutions.

JCA sounds like an unnecessary abstraction around Lucene - though I'm 
open to be convinced otherwise.

	Erik


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org


