FROM: "Groose, Brian" <Brian.Gro...@ironmountain.com>
SUBJECT: ParallelReader and updateDocument don't play nice?
DATE: 22 Feb 2011

I have been looking at using ParallelReader as its documentation indicates, to allow certain
fields to be updated while most of the fields will not be updated.

However, this does not seem possible.  Let's say I have two indexes, A and B, which are used
in a ParallelReader.  If I update a document in index B, then I must also update the same
document in index A, otherwise the documents in the two indexes do not line up.  This kind
of defeats the purpose of using two indexes with ParallelReader, since I could just use a
single index and update the one document as usual, ParallelReader buys me nothing but more
complexity.

Am I missing something here?  Is there some way to update a Document (or Field) so that it
won't actually be a delete+add?

It would seem that to update a single Document or Field in index B I really need to fully
re-index B with the documents in the same order, which gets expensive if you have tens of
millions of documents in the index.

Thoughts?

Thanks!



The information contained in this email message and its attachments is intended only for the
private and confidential use of the recipient(s) named above, unless the sender expressly
agrees otherwise. Transmission of email over the Internet is not a secure communications medium.
If you are requesting or have requested the transmittal of personal data, as defined in applicable
privacy laws by means of email or in an attachment to email, you must select a more secure
alternate means of transmittal that supports your obligations to protect such personal data.
If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient and/or you have received this
email in error, you must take no action based on the information in this email and you are
hereby notified that any dissemination, misuse or copying or disclosure of this communication
is strictly prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please notify us
immediately by email and delete the original message. 
