FROM: Paul.Illingwo...@saaconsultants.com
SUBJECT: Updating the index and searching
DATE: 7 Sep 2005





Hello,

I have an index into which documents get added and updated (by deleting and
adding). When I run queries on the index these have to take into account
all changes on the index so I open a new IndexReader. What I am finding is
that when the index is large the opening of the index takes a considerable
time with the effect that queries appear to take a long time to run. If a
new document is added or an existing document is updated then I need make
the changes and then open a new IndexReader so that I am able to see the
changes.

Does anybody else have a similar problem? Any solutions?

One idea I have been thinking about that may get around the problem is to
have two indexes, one which is only ever open for reading, the other used
for reading/writing. The idea is that new documents only get added to the
read/write index whilst queries and deletes would operate on both indexes.
Periodically (overnight or when the read/write index reaches a certain
size) then the read/write index will be merged into the read only index and
a new empty read/write index created. The thinking behind this is the
read/write index will be kept small and so constantly opening and closing
will be relatively quick whilst the read only index will be able to be kept
open.

One worry I have is that keeping the read only index open for long periods
without closing it means that the list of deleted documents will be kept in
memory until the index is closed. If something happens to the server
hosting the index then these deletes will be lost. Is there any way to
force the deletes to be flushed to the disk without closing and reopening
the index?

Any help/ideas would be greatly appreciated.

Regards

Paul I.

P.S. I know this subject has been touched upon before and I have had a look
through the mailing lists but couldn't find anything. It would be nice if
the mailing lists had a search facility...


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


