FROM: "Ronald Wildenberg" <r.wildenb...@kennisnet.org>
SUBJECT: RE: Index not recreated
DATE: 15 Aug 2006

> Van: Jason Polites [mailto:jason.polites@gmail.com] 
> Verzonden: dinsdag 15 augustus 2006 2:28
> Onderwerp: Re: Index not recreated
> 
> The "intermittent" nature of your problem points to a 
> concurrency issue.
> Does the production environment have a greater number of 
> users?  If so, this likely translates to a greater number of 
> threads acting upon the index.  I'd be looking for possible 
> conflicts between different threads accessing the index.  
> This would also explain why you see the problem in production 
> and not testing.


Well, reindexing takes place at 2 in the morning, so the number of
threads executing upon the index should not be a problem. But I'll keep
it in mind. Thanks.


DISCLAIMER:

Dit bericht (met bijlagen) is met grote zorgvuldigheid samengesteld. Voor mogelijke onjuistheid
en/of onvolledigheid van de hierin verstrekte informatie kan Kennisnet geen aansprakelijkheid
aanvaarden, evenmin kunnen aan de inhoud van dit bericht (met bijlagen) rechten worden ontleend.
De inhoud van dit bericht (met bijlagen) kan vertrouwelijke informatie bevatten en is uitsluitend
bestemd voor de geadresseerde van dit bericht. Indien u niet de beoogde ontvanger van dit
bericht bent, verzoekt Kennisnet u dit bericht te verwijderen, eventuele bijlagen niet te
openen en wijst Kennisnet u op de onrechtmatigheid van het gebruiken, kopiren of verspreiden
van de inhoud van dit bericht (met bijlagen).

This message (with attachments) is given in good faith. Kennisnet cannot assume any responsibility
for the accuracy or reliability of the information contained in this message (with attachments),
nor shall the information be construed as constituting any obligation on the part of Kennisnet.
The information contained in this message (with attachments) may be confidential or privileged
and is only intended for the use of the named addressee. If you are not the intended recipient,
you are requested by Kennisnet to delete this message (with attachments) without opening it
and you are notified by Kennisnet that any disclosure, copying or distribution of the information
contained in this message (with attachments) is strictly prohibited and unlawful.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


