FROM: "Michael Osofsky" <mosof...@netbase.com>
SUBJECT: job announcement - Software Architect
DATE: 20 Mar 2009

Software Architect
Location: Mountain View, CA 

NetBase, a well-funded, fast growing company with an impressive roster
of top-tier Fortune 500 companies, seeks to grow its team with a
hands-on software architect.

NetBase delivers Content Intelligence solutions that harness value and
insight from any source, including the Internet, premium and enterprise
content.  NetBase reads every sentence inside documents, linguistically
understands the content and powers breakthrough search experiences with
relevant answers and insights.  NetBase is being used by organizations
that are recognized as global leaders in healthcare, publishing,
manufacturing, consumer packaged goods and government such as Elsevier,
Clorox, 3M, The U.S. Army, Pepsi and many more.

We seek a hands-on architect with extensive background in software
development to translate business objectives into a technology vision
and articulated architecture.  Candidates should have a strong track
record of designing and developing multi-tiered web applications that
are high quality, scalable, and reliable.  We prefer generalists who
have driven feature development at every layer of the stack.  We have a
strong preference for someone with expertise in text search engines such
as Lucene or FAST who have customized these systems and deployed them on
a large-scale.  Also preferred are candidates with experience in
applying NLP and Machine Learning to solving problems for Fortune 500
end-users.

Candidates should have excellent interpersonal skills and a track record
of increasing responsibility.  Those who are skilled in organizational
needs assessment and driving change via consensus will fit in well on
our team.  Candidates should be able to establish credibility quickly
and provide mentorship to team members.  We target talented individuals
who are resourceful, flexible, and aggressive about learning new things.

We are an Agile development shop.  We do test-driven design and rapid
iterative development and are looking for a like-minded architect to
help us build for the future. 

Requirements:
* 10 years work experience with 3+ as an architect
* Experience in large-scale, distributed, web-based applications
* Agile development methodology
* Deep knowledge of Java 
* MS or PhD in CS
* Database design and SQL (MySQL a plus)
* Excellent interpersonal and communications skills 
* High degree of integrity and drive 
* Expertise in Adobe Flex, Flash and Python are nice to have 

Authorization to work in the US and relocation are required.

To apply: Please submit a resume and cover letter via email to
team@netbase.com with the subject of "Software Architect".



---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


