FROM: Grant Ingersoll <gsing...@apache.org>
SUBJECT: [Announce] Call For Papers opens for ApacheCon US 2009
DATE: 10 Nov 2008

If you have only 30 seconds to read this;

        Join us in celebrating the ASF's 10th Anniversary at ApacheCon!

        The Call for Papers is now open for ApacheCon US 2009, taking
        place 2-6
        November in Oakland, California. Proposals are being accepted at
        http://us.apachecon.com/c/acus2009/cfp/ and can be revised at
        anytime until
        the submissions closing deadline of 28 February 2009.

        In addition, sponsorship opportunities for both ApacheCon EU
        2009/Amsterdam
        and ApacheCon US 2009/Oakland are available. Please contact
        Delia Frees at
        delia@apachecon.com for further information.

        Please, read on...

        *******

        ApacheCon Celebrates the ASF's 10th Anniversary in Oakland,
        California,
        2-6 November 2009

        Call for Papers Opens for ApacheCon US 2009

        The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) invites submissions to its
        official
        user and developer conference, taking place 2-6 November 2009 at
        the Oakland
        Convention Center and Marriott Hotel. ApacheCon serves as a
        forum for
        showcasing the ASF's latest projects, members, and community
        initiatives.
        Offering unparalleled educational opportunities, ApacheCon's
        presentations,
        hands-on trainings, and sessions address key technology,
        development,
        business/community, and licensing issues in Open Source.

        The wide range of activities offered at ApacheCon promotes the
        exchange of
        ideas amongst ASF Members, committers, innovators, developers,
        vendors, and
        users interested in the future of Open Source technology. The
        conference
        program includes peer-reviewed sessions, trainings/workshops,
        and select
        invited keynote presentations and speakers.

        Conference Themes and Topics

        Building on ten years of success, ApacheCon returns to the Bay
        Area for the
        10th anniversary of the Apache Software Foundation. Comprising
        some of the
        most active and recognized developers in the Open Source
        community,
        ApacheCon provides an influential platform for dialogue between
        Open Source
        developers and users, traversing a wide range of ideas,
        expertise, and
        personalities.

        ApacheCon welcomes submissions across many fields, geographic
        locations, and
        areas of development. The breadth of the Apache community lends
        itself to
        conference content that is somewhat loosely-structured, with
        common themes
        of interest addressing groundbreaking technologies and emerging
        trends, best
        practices (from development to deployment), case studies and
        lessons learned
        (tips, tools, and tricks). In addition, ApacheCon will continue
        to offer its
        highly popular, two-day intensive trainings; certifications of
        completion
        will be distributed to those who fulfill all the training
        requirements.

        Topics appropriate for submission are manifold, and may include
        but are not
        restricted to: Apache HTTP server (installation, configuration,
        migration,
        and more); ASF-wide projects (including Lucene, Hadoop,
        Jackrabbit, and
        Maven); Scripting languages and dynamic content (such as Java,
        Perl, Python,
        Ruby, XSL, and PHP); Security and e-commerce (performance
        tuning, load
        balancing and high availability); New technologies (including
        broader
        initiatives such as Web Services and Web 2.0); ASF-Incubated
        projects (such
        as Sling, UIMA, and Shindig); and Business/Community issues
        (Open Source
        driven business models, open development, enterprise adoption,
        and more).

        Submission Guidelines

        Submissions must include; – Session title - Speaker name -
        Speaker biography
        - Session description - Format and duration - Audience expertise
        level

        Full details are available online on the CFP page at [WWW]
        http://us.apachecon.com/c/acus2009/cfp/

        Types of Presentations; - Trainings/Workshops - General Sessions
        - Case
        Studies/Industry Profiles - Corporate Showcases & Demonstrations
        - Fast
        Feather (short) sessions - Birds of a Feather discussions -
        Invited
        Keynotes/Panels/Speakers

        Pre-Conference Trainings/Workshops

        Held on the first two days of the conference (2-3 November
        2009), ApacheCon
        trainings are available at a registration fee beyond the regular
        conference
        fee. Proposals may be submitted for half-day (3 hours), full-day
        (6 hours),
        or two-day (12 hours) training sessions. These proposed
        tutorials should be
        aimed at providing in-depth, hands-on development experience or
        related
        continuing education. Training submissions are welcome at
        beginner,
        intermediate, and expert levels.

        General Sessions include presentations on practical development
        applications, insight into high-interest projects, best
        practices and key
        advances, overcoming implementation challenges, and industry
        innovations.
        Especially welcome are submissions that extend participants'
        understanding
        the role of ASF projects and their influence on the Open Source
        community at
        large. General Sessions are scheduled for 50 minutes and are
        accessible to
        all conference delegates.

        Case Study/Industry Profile

        Practitioners are invited to submit presentations that focus on
        how
        implementing particular ASF technologies led to improved
        products/solutions,
        service offerings, changes in work practices, among other
        successes.
        Proposals that highlight overcoming interesting challenges in
        application
        design and developing innovative frameworks using multiple ASF
        projects are
        particularly encouraged. NOTE: Marketing-oriented submissions
        aimed at
        promoting specific organizations or products will not be
        accepted.

        Invited Keynotes/Panels/Speakers

        Each conference the ApacheCon Planning team invites select
        presenters
        dealing with engaging, dialectical, and challenging subjects to
        present in
        keynote and/or panel formats. Topics include cutting-edge
        technology
        development, industry leadership, hot or emerging trends,
        opinions on
        controversial issues, insight on technology paradigms, and
        contrasting
        viewpoints in complementary professional areas. Those interested
        in
        suggesting a candidate for an invited speaker opportunity should
        submit a
        brief proposal with the speaker's name, affiliation,
        background/bio,
        overview of topics of interest, and contact information.

        Birds of a Feather (BoF) sessions and Fast Feather Track talks
        are selected
        by separate processes, nearer to the beginning of the
        conference.

        Proposals are now being accepted at
        http://us.apachecon.com/c/acus2009/cfp/
        and can be revised at anytime until the submissions closing
        deadline of 28
        February 2009.

        In addition, sponsorship opportunities for both ApacheCon EU
        2009/Amsterdam
        and ApacheCon US 2009/Oakland are available. Please contact
        Delia Frees at
        delia@apachecon.com for further information.

        ApacheCon US 2009 is co-produced by the Apache Software
        Foundation and Stone
        Circle Productions. The ApacheCon Planning team comprises ASF
        Members from
        all over the world working on a wholly-volunteer basis. For more
        information, visit http://us.apachecon.com/c/acus2009/
-- 
Thorsten Scherler
thorsten.at.apache.org
Open Source Java                      consulting, training and solutions


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


