FROM: Chris Hostetter <hossman_luc...@fucit.org>
SUBJECT: Re: Boost value corrupted "read eof exception"
DATE: 15 Feb 2008


Reading between the lines, I suspect two things are happening here, both 
of which seems like missunderstandings ...

1) i think the IOException seen while debugging is refering to an 
exception which is handled internally in Lucene and is not actually a 
problem -- but Allahbaksh is seeing it when stepping through his program 
with a debugger.  Unless the exception is rethrown and your code is 
catching it, you can ignore it ... there are places in the Lucene code 
where exceptions may happen because of filesystem changes and but Lucene 
can and does catch them and deal with them appropriately so you don't have 
to.

2) i believe the refrences to boost values is about trying to call 
getBoost() on a field or document after getting the document returned from 
a search.  this is not something that will ever work, please read the 
javadocs for getBoost().

...if i am wrong about my interpretation of either of these issues, please 
ignore me and clarify the issues.



: Allahbaksh Mohammedali Asadullah <Allahbaksh_Asadullah@infosys.com> wrote:
: >
: > Hi,
: > Thanks for your valuable time.Could you get the same boost value what you
: > had stored. In my case I always get boost value as 1 ie. Default value. When
: > I debug it goes through IOException though it does not show any Exception on
: > the console in eclipse.
: 
: 
: Sorry, I don't understand what the problem is with the boost.  Can you turn
: this into a unit test that fails?  That would make the issue clearer.
: 
: I also don't understand the exception you are seeing with debugging.  If you
: could make that exception occur in a unit test that would be great too.
: 
: Mike
: 



-Hoss


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


