FROM: Chris Hostetter <hossman_luc...@fucit.org>
SUBJECT: Re: Problem using wildcardsearch in phrase search
DATE: 14 May 2007


: queryparsersyntax page which is where I expect most novices (such as
: myself) start with lucene seems to indicate that wildcards can be used
: in, and this page is
: as far as one should need to go to understand basic query syntax, this
: page should be corrected.

if you have a suggestion for improving the page, please by all means
submit a patch with your suggestions.  I've said it before and i'll say it
again: novice users are the best documentation writers because unlike
seasoned experinced usersor developers, they are ones just learning the
system who don't already have ingrained knowledge that they take for
granted.

: A Phrase is a group of words surrounded by double quotes such as "hello
: dolly".
:
: ....
:
: Wildcard Searches
: Lucene supports single and multiple character wildcard searches.
: To perform a multiple character wildcard search use the "*" symbol.
: Multiple character wildcard searches looks for 0 or more characters. For
: example, to search for test, tests or tester, you can use the search:
:
: test*
: You can also use the wildcard searches in the middle of a term.
:
: '
: there is nothing to indicate in the section on Wildcard Searches that it
: can be performed only on Single word terms not Phrase terms.

I would meanwhile argue that there is nothing in the description of a
Phrase to indicate that it can be anything other then what it says "a
group of words surrounded by double quotes" .. at no point does ist
suggest that other types of queries or syntax can be used inside the
quotes.  likewise the discussion of Wildcards makes no mention of phrases
to suggest that wildcard characters can be used in a phrase.

But as i said: if you have suggestions for clarifying the docs, please
submit them as a patch.  just saying the docs need to be improved without
providing a specific suggestion for how they can be improved doesn't
really help the situation.



-Hoss


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


