FROM: "Kainth, Sachin" <Sachin.Kai...@atkinsglobal.com>
SUBJECT: Search in all fields
DATE: 19 Feb 2007

Hi All,

I want to be able to do a search for a term in all fields in a document.


One way this can be done is to put every element of a document in the
default field (or I guess any other single named field) as well as
separate fields in which those elements belong.  So for example if for
my documents I had the following fields:

A, B, C, D and E

If I then set up a field called

All

And for all documents I processed as well as putting the elements of
that document in A, B, C, D and E I would also put them as a
concatenation into All as well.

One problem with this is that if for a particular document I had these
values for my five fields:

A -> Hello
B -> How
C -> Are
D -> You
E -> Mate
(All -> Hello How Are You Mate)

Then a search for "How Are You" in All would return true when no single
field contains this string which is not ideal.

Another problem with this is that it would double the size of the index
(unless Lucene does something clever here).

A way to solve the original issue is to convert the search for "How Are
You" into this:

A:How Are You OR B:How Are You OR C:How Are You OR D:How Are You OR
E:How Are You

This solves both the problems of the solution where we set up the All
field (viz. increasing the size of the index and  bringing back more
results than we should).

However, this solution also has it's drawback and that is that now we
have gone from a simple query to a complex ANDing of all fields in the
document.

My question is this: is there a third way?

Cheers

Sachin


This email and any attached files are confidential and copyright protected. If you are not
the addressee, any dissemination of this communication is strictly prohibited. Unless otherwise
expressly agreed in writing, nothing stated in this communication shall be legally binding.

The ultimate parent company of the Atkins Group is WS Atkins plc.  Registered in England No.
1885586.  Registered Office Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey KT18 5BW.

Consider the environment. Please don't print this e-mail unless you really need to. 

