FROM: Ivan Vasilev <ivasi...@sirma.bg>
SUBJECT: Question about Lucene 2.3. file formats?
DATE: 22 Jan 2008

Hi Lucene Guys,

As I see in the Lucene web site in file formats page the version 2.3 
will have some changes in file formats that are very important for us. 
First I will say what we do and then will ask my questions.

We distribute the index on some machines. The implementation is made so 
that we copy some segments to one machine and for them we create the 
segments_N metadata file according to the rules described in Lucene web 
site. Which exactly segments we will move to other machine we calculate 
based on the available disk spaces and the size in bytes of the 
segments. Now as I see you will use data sharing so that some segments 
will store documents of some other segments. This rise some questions in 
us regarding how to support our clusterization for Lucene 2.3.

   1. Is this sharing temporary or it is constant? I mean is sharing
      will take place only in the process of adding documents to index
      and after that, may be when optimization or some other process is
      run the shared documents are distributed among the segments that
      use them? Or it is possible that shared documents on a segment
      will remain shared after optimizing?
   2. Is there way to unshare documents – I mean when transferring a
      segment to some other machine can I transfer its documents from
      the other segment that holds them to it?
   3. As I see in the source code in SVN of Lucene 2.3. there is class
      LogByteSizeMergePolicy that allows controlling the maximal size of
      segment that could be merged. Here I have two questions:

3.1. Can I control not only the max size of segments that will be 
merged, but also the max size (or approximate max size) of segments that 
would occur after merging?

3.2.Can I somehow control the maximal size of segment at all (or may be 
its approximate maximal size – I mean to stop adding documents to a 
segment after it reaches some size)?

3.3.Can I somehow control the maximal size of a segment and all other 
segments which documents are shared in it?

Best Regards,
Ivan

---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


