FROM: Daniel Noll <dan...@nuix.com.au>
SUBJECT: Re: Memory Usage
DATE: 16 Nov 2005

Marvin Humphrey wrote:

> The formatting of the results turned up a little screwy in my email  
> reader, so here's a reformatted version...

I noticed the same thing on Thunderbird, although viewing the source 
showed that the original was okay, and KMail didn't seem to have the 
same issue.  However, the quoting at the front of the table does appear 
to fix the formatting. :-)

> I'm only passingly familiar with the org.apache.lucene.search  
> package, so I'm not sure what could account for this; I would  
> normally expect a more common term to take longer, as there are more  
> docs to score.  Anybody got a expanation handy? 

I was figuring that a term which exists in more documents would be 
quicker to populate the initial hits for, but a term which has less than 
the number of initial hits would take longer.  But you're right, that 
doesn't sound like the behaviour of an index at all, it should be linear 
until scoring enters into it.

I'm not sure how scoring affects all of this at the moment, though... we 
actually performed the norms-removal hack on our copy of Lucene as well 
(that reduced memory usage even more) before doing all of this testing 
and I'm not sure whether that would affect the scoring also (it doesn't 
have to read the norms in during the search, which must have made 
searching faster overall as a side-effect.)

Daniel


-- 
Daniel Noll

NUIX Pty Ltd
Level 8, 143 York Street, Sydney 2000
Phone: (02) 9283 9010
Fax:   (02) 9283 9020

This message is intended only for the named recipient. If you are not
the intended recipient you are notified that disclosing, copying,
distributing or taking any action in reliance on the contents of this
message or attachment is strictly prohibited.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


