FROM: "Daan de Wit" <d.de....@wis.nl>
SUBJECT: RE: Query regarding usage of Lucene(Filtering folder)
DATE: 28 Feb 2008

This sure is possible with Lucene. What you need to do is index the path
along with your documents, so you get a field like this: `path:
/subfolder/subsubfolder`. Now you can restrict your search to a specific
path. Including subfolders in the search can be done by adding a '*' to
the path used in the query.

Kind regards,
Daan

-----Original Message-----
From: Ravinder.Teepiredddy@iflexsolutions.com
[mailto:Ravinder.Teepiredddy@iflexsolutions.com] 
Sent: Thursday, February 28, 2008 8:00
To: java-user@lucene.apache.org
Subject: Query regarding usage of Lucene(Filtering folder)

Hi All,

 

I had a query regarding usage of lucene.

I have done the indexing for the files kept in root folder ->
subfolder-> Subfolder structure.

When I make the search with particular word it returns me the list of
matching files across the folder structure right from root to the last
subfolder.

I want to restrict search to specific folder only.

Is it possible with lucene?

If yes, please suggest me the steps to follow.

 

Thanks,

Mohammad

 

 



DISCLAIMER:
This message contains privileged and confidential information and is
intended only for an individual named. If you are not the intended
recipient, you should not disseminate, distribute, store, print, copy or
deliver this message. Please notify the sender immediately by e-mail if
you have received this e-mail by mistake and delete this e-mail from
your system. E-mail transmission cannot be guaranteed to be secure or
error-free as information could be intercepted, corrupted, lost,
destroyed, arrive late or incomplete or contain viruses. The sender,
therefore,  does not accept liability for any errors or omissions in the
contents of this message which arise as a result of e-mail transmission.
If verification is required, please request a hard-copy version.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


