FROM: "Stranzenbach, Ralf" <rstranzenb...@kpmg.com>
SUBJECT: AW: SqlDirectory
DATE: 27 Nov 2001

Hi,
i'm interested in your work and would like to volunteer to check this
extension.

Mit freundlichen Grüßen
Ralf Edmund Stranzenbach

kpmg Consulting AG
Am Bonneshof 35
D-40474 Düsseldorf
Tel.: 		+49-211-475-6038
Handy:		+49-174-30 75 211
Fax.:		+49-211-475-6500
Email:		rstranzenbach@kpmg.com



-----Ursprüngliche Nachricht-----
Von: Marc Kramis [mailto:mkramis@student.ethz.ch]
Gesendet: Montag, 26. November 2001 21:39
An: lucene-user@jakarta.apache.org
Betreff: SqlDirectory


hi all

some time ago, there was a short discussion about a database store. I also
needed some persistence layer that was accessible via JDBC. It turned out,
that a BLOB implementation is strongly dependent on the RDBMS used and also
poorly performing.

I implemented a SqlDirectory, based on the idea of RAMDirectory and its
buffers as basic element.
goals:
1. should work with all JDBC compliant RDBMS (no adaption required, no
blobs!).
2. performance should be acceptable.
3. simple db schema.

status:
1. tested on Oracle 8i (free oracle JDBC driver type 4) and SQL Server 2000
(free microsoft JDBC beta driver type 4). works perfectly.
2. consists of 2 tables and 1 index. (one tablespace can have several
indexes of course)
3. promising performance.

todo:
1. test reliability, performance, concurrency (multiple reader/writer), test
with mySQL
2. code review
3. introduce caching (maybe CacheDirectory)

if someone has experience or just likes to test it, mail me. Anyway, could I
simply attach the SqlDirectory.java file to my mails?

marc



--
To unsubscribe, e-mail:
<mailto:lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org>
For additional commands, e-mail:
<mailto:lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org>


-- 
                  E-Mail Disclaimer

Der Inhalt dieser E-Mail ist ausschliesslich fuer den bezeichneten
Adressaten bestimmt. Wenn Sie nicht der vorgesehene Adressat dieser 
E-Mail oder dessen Vertreter sein sollten, so beachten Sie bitte, dass
jede Form der Kenntnisnahme, Veroeffentlichung, Vervielfaeltigung oder
Weitergabe des Inhalts dieser E-Mail unzulaessig ist. Wir bitten Sie,
sich in diesem Fall mit dem Absender der E-Mail in Verbindung zu
setzen. Aussagen gegenueber dem Adressaten unterliegen den Regelungen
des zugrundeliegenden Angebotes bzw. Auftrags, insbesondere den 
Allgemeinen Auftragsbedingungen und der individuellen Haftungs-
vereinbarung. Der Inhalt der E-Mail ist nur rechtsverbindlich, wenn er
unsererseits durch einen Brief entsprechend bestaetigt wird. Die
Versendung von E-Mails an uns hat keine fristwahrende Wirkung. Wir 
moechten Sie ausserdem darauf hinweisen, dass die Kommunikation per
E-Mail ueber das Internet unsicher ist, da fuer unberechtigte Dritte
grundsaetzlich die Moeglichkeit der Kenntnisnahme und Manipulation
besteht. Wir werden daher keine vertraulichen Daten unverschluesselt
per E-Mail ueber das Internet versenden.

The information contained in this email is intended solely for the
addressee. Access to this email by anyone else is unauthorized. If you
are not the intended recipient, any form of disclosure, reproduction,
distribution or any action taken or refrained from in reliance on it,
is prohibited and may be unlawful. Please notify the sender
immediately. All statements of opinion or advice directed via this
email to our clients are subject to the terms and conditions expressed
in the governing KPMG client engagement letter. The content of this
email is not legally binding unless confirmed by letter. The sending
of emails to us will not constitute compliance with any time limits or
deadlines. We also like to inform you that communication via email
over the internet is insecure because third parties may have the
possibility to access and manipulate emails. For this reason we will
not send any confidential information via email over the internet,
unless encrypted.

--
To unsubscribe, e-mail:   <mailto:lucene-user-unsubscribe@jakarta.apache.org>
For additional commands, e-mail: <mailto:lucene-user-help@jakarta.apache.org>


