FROM: "Jason Rutherglen" <jason.rutherg...@gmail.com>
SUBJECT: Realtime Search for Social Networks Collaboration
DATE: 3 Sep 2008

Hello all,

I don't mean this to sound like a solicitation.  I've been working on
realtime search and created some Lucene patches etc.  I am wondering
if there are social networks (or anyone else) out there who would be
interested in collaborating with Apache on realtime search to get it
to the point it can be used in production.  It is a challenging
problem that only Google has solved and made to scale.  I've been
working on the problem for a while and though a lot has been
completed, there is still a lot more to do and collaboration amongst
the most probable users (social networks) seems like a good thing to
try to do at this point.  I guess I'm saying it seems like a hard
enough problem that perhaps it's best to work together on it rather
than each company try to complete their own.  However I could be
wrong.

Realtime search benefits social networks by providing a scalable
searchable alternative to large Mysql implementations.  Mysql I have
heard is difficult to scale at a certain point.  Apparently Google has
created things like BigTable (a large database) and an online service
called GData (which Google has not published any whitepapers on the
technology underneath) to address scaling large database systems.
BigTable does not offer search.   GData does and is used by all of
Google's web services instead of something like Mysql (this is at
least how I understand it).  Social networks usually grow and so
scaling is continually an issue.  It is possible to build a realtime
search system that scales linearly, something that I have heard
becomes difficult with Mysql.  There is an article that discusses some
of these issues
http://acmqueue.com/modules.php?name=Content&pa=showpage&pid=337  I
don't think the current GData implementation is perfect and there is a
lot that can be improved on.  It might be helpful to figure out
together what helpful things can be added.

If this sounds like something of interest to anyone feel free to send
your input.

Take care,
Jason

---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


