FROM: Mark Miller <markrmil...@gmail.com>
SUBJECT: [ANNOUNCEMENT] LucidGaze for Lucene released
DATE: 24 Aug 2009

Hey all,

Just wanted to alert you to a new free offering we just released.
Combine Lucene with a little aspect programming and you can do some
pretty cool things :)

Announce:

Lucid Imagination has released LucidGaze for Lucene, a performance
monitoring and analysis utility for Open Source Apache Lucene. See
www.lucidimagination.com/Downloads/LucidGaze-for-Lucene.

This new utility simplifies analysis of performance for native Lucene
Java apps, by making transparent the search operations, so you can see
exactly how your search application works inside Lucene.
It supports a number of monitors -- statistics collectors which
aggregate information about different key aspects of Lucene search
operations. These statistics collectors can be controlled and reset
individually, with APIs to access the statistics within each. Included
in this version are:

* Analysis Monitor – information about the different analyzers and
filters used to create the index.
* Document Monitor – information on documents and fields added to or
retrieved from a Lucene index.
* Index Monitor – statistics on buffers, memory usage, Lucene index
readers/writers and add/commit times.
* Search Monitor – information about search cycle times.
* Store Monitor – provides number of directory instances.

LucidGaze for Lucene works as a drop-in replacement for the Lucene JAR;
it requires no changes to the source code of the application, or even
recompilation. This makes it readily usable with existing applications
even if their source code is unavailable or difficult to change.
LucidGaze for Lucene has been developed for enterprises that use Lucene
without Solr. It supports Apache Lucene version 2.4.1 and later. (Mark: 
released versions only at the moment)

-- 
- Mark

http://www.lucidimagination.com




---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


