FROM: "Charles Patridge" <ch...@fullcapture.com>
SUBJECT: RE: Indexing
DATE: 25 Aug 2007

Mike,

Was Wondering if you could possibly post this to the Java-User Lucene
Forum.  I am not sure why but I can not seem to get this through
successfully.

I appreciate any assistance you can offer me - thanks.

To ALL LUCENE Experts,

We are seeking a LUCENE expert to do some contract work.

Can pay on a project basis or hrly.  

Contractor can telecommute with periodic face-to-face meetings

Scope of First Project will be:

 
Concept Search - 

1.       For example - Would like to search documents for "Wild
Animals".  However, "Wild Animals" will consist of an unlimited number
of N-grams such as

FOX
DEER
MOOSE
BEAR
ELK
COYOTE
WOLF
RACOON
SQUIRREL
:
:

 

2.       In addition, in order to get a higher accuracy of desired
results in #1 above, we would also like to be able to add another list
of N-grams such as "Wild Animals Remove" which might contain the
following

DOG
CAT
HORSE
COW
CATTLE
:
:

 

And this second list, "Wild Animals Remove" would be used to exclude any
documents that contain the N-grams in this list with the idea that what
remains in the result set would be the true desired results.


This Concept search must work with an unlimited number of N-grams, a
variety of lists, and the ability to exclude the result set with other
lists.

If possible, it would be desireable to have multiple input sets for both
inclusion and exclusion lists.

Need a list of references and brief description of past projects

Will need to sign a NDA and Non-Compete contracts to protect our IP
developments

Either cost for Entire Project OR Hourly Rate

A Date when you can start the project

And provide contact information such as name, phone, address, email so
we can contact you.

We are looking to start and finish this project in the 4th quarter 2007.

Charles Patridge
Full Capture Solutions, Inc.
333 Roberts Street, Suite 400
East Hartford, CT 06108
Phone: 860-291-9517 x 106
Email: Chuck@fullcapture.com


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


