FROM: "Jonathan O'Connor" <jonathan.ocon...@xcom.de>
SUBJECT: Design Problem: Searching large set of protected documents
DATE: 3 Apr 2007

Hi,
I have a database of a million documents and about 100 users. The documents
can have an access control list, and there is a complex, recursive
algorithm to say if a particular user can see a particular document.

My problem is that my search algorithm is to first do a standard lucene
search for matching documents, and then check security on each one found,
just returning the allowed documents. However, if I do this, and the lucene
returns 100000 docs, but the user can only see 10 of these, then obviously
the search is going to take an awful long time.

Has anyone come across this problem before, and if so what approach did you
take? I guess I could precalculate the permissions for every user-document
pair, but that's alot of storage, and a lot of precalculation!

I await the list's accumulated wisdom with eagerness and interest.
Thanks,
Jonathan O'Connor
XCOM Dublin



*** XCOM AG Legal Disclaimer ***

Diese E-Mail einschliesslich ihrer Anhaenge ist vertraulich und ist allein
für den Gebrauch durch den vorgesehenen Empfaenger bestimmt. Dritten ist
das Lesen, Verteilen oder Weiterleiten dieser E-Mail untersagt. Wir bitten,
eine fehlgeleitete E-Mail unverzueglich vollstaendig zu loeschen und uns
eine Nachricht zukommen zu lassen.

This email may contain material that is confidential and for the sole use
of the intended recipient. Any review, distribution by others or forwarding
without express permission is strictly prohibited. If you are not the
intended recipient, please contact the sender and delete all copies.

Hauptsitz: Bahnstrasse 37, D-47877 Willich, USt-IdNr.: DE 812 885 664
Kommunikation: Telefon +49 2154 9209-70, Telefax +49 2154 9209-900,
www.xcom.de
Handelsregister: Amtsgericht Krefeld, HRB 10340
Vorstand: Matthias Albrecht, Renate Becker-Grope, Marco Marty, Dr. Rainer
Fuchs
Vorsitzender des Aufsichtsrates: Stephan Steuer