FROM: "Andreas Guther" <Andreas.Gut...@markettools.com>
SUBJECT: RE: Minalyzer
DATE: 31 Dec 2006

Hi,

I am reluctant using tiny url links sent to mailing lists.  I would
suggest using in addition to the tiny url at the end of your email a
full URL so everyone can verify the URL before clicking on it.

Andreas



-----Original Message-----
From: Saurabh Dani [mailto:saurabh@danicorp.com] 
Sent: Saturday, December 30, 2006 11:54 AM
To: java-user@lucene.apache.org; lucene-net-user@lucene.apache.org
Subject: Minalyzer



Greetings All,

In the past week, we have released the first public beta of our first
Lucene based product.

Minalyzer (Miner and Analyzer) is a unique product that combines search
with data analysis. We have found many scenarios where data analysis can
be based on phrases / keywords in the data and we are trying to target
that market. Minalyzer also targets those lucene users who are looking
at quick deployment of full text indexing and search capabilities
without any programming required.

Minalyzer index server is "like" a database server, where one can create
multiple datastores. Datastores in Minalyzer world are similar to
"databases", where one can creates multiple "index collections" (like
tables in databases). Each Index Collection within a datastore is a
lucene index, which can be created without any programming knowledge. We
have provided GUI Wizards to create index collections on log files (any
delimited file), plain text files and relational databases.

We will be adding several more Wizards to easily index information and
templates to generate reports. We do expect the application to have some
minor bugs in Beta phase, and we plan a monthly release to address those
bugs and to add new features.

If you want to try it out, we have provided step by step instructions to
download, install and index a sample IIS log file. We have even provided
a sample log file, so all you need is about 10-15 minutes to try it out
-> currently we are only supporting Windows platform ->
http://tinyurl.com/ybgeqx . You need a Windows machine with .net 2.0
installed to test it.

We have provided some screen shots / demo of the End User Interface
(Smart Client), report designer interface and the interface for
Administrative client to Manage the index server here ->
http://tinyurl.com/y6agap .

If you have any feedback / critique, we would love to hear that.

Thanks for your time.
Saurabh


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


