FROM: "George Aroush" <geo...@aroush.net>
SUBJECT: RE: Sharing Documents between Lucene and DotLucene
DATE: 25 Aug 2006

Hi,

I am the developer and maintainer of Lucene.Net.

DotLucene is the old name, Lucene.Net is the official name.  You can find
out more about Lucene.Net by visiting this link:
http://incubator.apache.org/lucene.net/

I am not sure what you mean by "marshall Document objects from Java to C#".
However, if mean sharing an index that's created by Jakarta Lucene be
searched/updated by Lucene.Net and via-vise, then the answer is yes.  In
fact, if you share the lock file, you can have concurrent access and update
to the Lucene index from the Jakarta Lucene and Lucene.Net

As part of Lucene.Net release, I always test and validate this test-case.

Regards,

-- George Aroush


-----Original Message-----
From: d rj [mailto:drjat320@gmail.com]
Sent: Friday, August 25, 2006 5:33 PM
To: java-user@lucene.apache.org
Subject: Sharing Documents between Lucene and DotLucene

Hello-

I am just wondering if any one has encountered any good strategies for
sharing search records between a Linux based server using Lucene and a
Windows based client using DotLucene.

I am doing all the indexing on the server ( i.e. the master index is
contained on the server) and I would like to transfer parts of that index
across the wire to a client.

Presently I am creating a temporary sub-index on the server, adding the
appropriate Document objects to that index, then transferring the the entire
index to the client which then merges the index into any existing index it
may already have.  However, I would like to avoid building/transferring a
sub-index.

I would like to know if anyone has attempted to directly marshall Document
objects from Java to C#.  Or if there are any other good approaches sharing
individual Document objects between Lucene and DotLucene.

Thanks.
-drj


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


