FROM: "Colin Young" <Colin.Yo...@tembizi.com>
SUBJECT: RE: Opening (and building) the lucene source in eclipse
DATE: 5 Jan 2006

I did manage to get things built with ant this morning (I had some time and space on the train)
including the DBDJE support, although I wasn't aware any of it had been checked into contrib.
I'll have to grab that tonight.

I had tried building a normal Eclipse project, but was having some problems with it. At least
now I can build from the command line. Now I just need to figure out who to report the Eclipse/Ant
problems to...

Just curious, but when one is desiring to make use of stuff in the contrib is there any particular
reason to compile it into the Lucene jar, or include it in the project that's making use of
it, or is it really just up to the preferences of the developer using it or the needs of the
environment?

Thanks for your patience with my question. I've made some really good progress in the last
couple days, so it looks like I'll be giving the BDBJE integration a good workout this weekend.

Colin

  _____  

From: Erik Hatcher [mailto:erik@ehatchersolutions.com]
Sent: Thu 1/5/2006 8:31 AM
To: java-user@lucene.apache.org
Subject: Re: Opening (and building) the lucene source in eclipse



Colin,

I've not used Eclipse in a long while, and I've not used the new Ant
project support it has. It sounds like Eclipse has issues with Ant
imports as you've surmised, and my recommendation is to simply set up
a normal Eclipse project. The source tree to Lucene is extremely
basic... src/java is the only path you need to add to build the core
Lucene library. For the BDBJE stuff, you'll want to check out the
latest source code of contrib/db where Andi has just committed the
BDBJE code, and add its source path(s) to your Eclipse project as well.

Not using the Ant project support should be just fine. I use
IntelliJ without running Ant through it. I simply use the command-
line to run Ant, and the IDE to do iterative development and unit
testing.

 Erik



Notice: This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution
is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply email
and destroy all copies of the original message.


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: java-user-unsubscribe@lucene.apache.org
For additional commands, e-mail: java-user-help@lucene.apache.org


